Welcome in this lecture.
We are going to be correcting our lobby so that now we as you can see here we've got our players who
can run around in the lobby and you going to have it so that when there are three players we move on
to the game together.
So let's see how that's going to look.
You are going to be able to join with a third player here.
There's my game instance called Boom.
Then a select boom.
And we're going to join it.
And when we joined that level there go you can see that everybody has transitioned in to the third person
example map.
And we are ready to play.
So everyone's been lobbied together until there were enough players and then we can start actually playing.
Let's dive in and see how we do this.
It's so exciting we're going to be learning about a concept called seamless travel So let's dive in
and see how it's done.
So before we go any further I really want to fix that bug that we've got in our game if we go and host
a game you can see that at the moment.
I'm not a third person.
I'm just some default spectator porn which is not ideal.
We do want to be a third person now.
The reason for this is that we haven't been calling super in these virtual methods that we've overidden
which means that any implementation they may have had in the parent classes just being ignored and it's
just calling hours.
So we do want to call super was that soup with a capital S then chalong colon and in post logons case
that's going to be post logmein.
And then we can just pass it.
The argument that we were given which was new play at this make sure that the superclass implementation
is getting called will do the same thing with lock out because we don't know what is in that superclass
and we shouldn't know what's in that superclass but we do need to always basically call up to Super
unless we know for sure that we are doing the right thing by not quoting super In fact I don't think
there is a good reason really why you would never call super.
You might call it in a different place in your method you might say that my code needs to run before
the superclass code but you certainly wouldn't want to just.
Say that your code is more important than anything that's in the superclass.
So with that build successful Let's see if that has eradicated the bug I'm going go ahead.
Play host.
And sure enough there I am either the third person again which is great.
So the next thing we want to do we have left a little stub of code where we are doing this we log saying
that we reach Three players instead of saying that we've reached the free players.
Why don't we go ahead and actually start the game.
That's what we want to do with this right.
So we can do that we've got a game it's the s.p. where we've got a server travel and we can go over
in to our lobby game mode C++ and where we have our eui Log we can go ahead and we can replace that
with a server travel.
And we're going to had server trouble to the right thing were going to have to get the correct world.
So just follow along with me on this one.
I'm going to get the world from the game isn't C++ as well.
And so that should alleviate the warning about getting the world.
And then we can get the correct map.
So where was that.
That's at our third person s.p. Maps third person example map.
Now I'm actually not happy with where that map is.
So I'm going to take this opportunity to move it somewhere a bit closer to our lobby.
So I'm going to right click and see.
I am just going to drag it up to the content folder to do that I need to add my sidebar for the source's
panel Ain the content browser then I can just track it right into puzzle platforms map and move it there.
Then I can get puzzle platforms map.
Where I got my third personal example map now and I'm going to rename this to game so I can just be
at game map and I'll go ahead and save.
Us open up the map because it seems to want to have those changes saved.
So they get saved and now I'm going to go over to Visual Studio and all I need to do now is change game
lobby to game and that should do the trick.
Now what I'm interested in seeing is when we build this how is that travelling going to look.
Is it's going to work and we're going to try it out in its own instance in a separate game instances
set up in a power shell.
So let's launch those games up now that the build has been successful going to launch up three so that
they can all join in one by one.
And then when they have all joined in we should automatically transition to ad game map.
So Game number one is going to be the host.
The next game is going to be something that we join in.
And same with that third game.
So I will open up the join many for both because it takes all the time to scan and then want it when
finished scanning we can select the game and we can join.
So we've got a second player in the game.
Now let's go and get our third player and we should all transition over to the game map to join.
Okay.
There's no one there and it's kind of seems to have frozen a little bit.
What's going on there.
Okay.
And then here we are.
We are all in the game map together.
So what was that freezing all about.
Why were we suddenly freezing when we were trying to travel from one session to the next.
Why was it not smooth and easy.
Now the reason for that is something called seamless travel.
In fact in this case non seamless travel because the way we were travelling to the new map is called
non seamless.
You can see all about seamless versus non seamless travel in this documentation page on the unreal website
and it tells you about the main differences.
But I'll tell you the main difference is just again the idea with non seamless travel is that.
The server first disconnects all the clients and tells them to reconnect to a new map and then itself
loads a new map so that's why we were getting that freeze because our client was joining in the map
and then was being told oh actually disconnect and join this other map so that this connection takes
time and is obviously not seamless.
So in seamless travel what we do instead is we move everybody over to a transition map before then moving
on to the actual map.
So the reason for having that transition map is a little bit technical.
And I think very specific to unreal in certain.
It's in a certain way the transition map basically means that you need to have a map loaded at any time
in and really you can't not have a map load it.
And if we have maps that are very large then transitioning between two maps means that we have to load
two large maps into memory and that can take up a lot of memory and probably memory that some clients
might not have.
So what we need to do is we need to transition first to a very small map which is going to be our transition
map which could be just like a loading screen.
And then once we've transitioned to that small map we can then get rid of the old map from memory because
we've got a map loaded and we can load the other big map into memory before transitioning to that map.
So I think the idea here is that because we need to have both maps loaded at the same time to do a smooth
transition when doing this client seamless thing.
So we're not actually having to disconnect and bit hazy on the exact details but the idea here is that
when you're transitioning you need a track when you are doing a seamless transition.
You need a transition map in place and by default there is a transition map so we can just use seamless
travel by default anyway.
And it's very easy to do because the game mode we have a variable that says Be use seamless travel and
by default this is false.
Which is why we're seeing the behaviour that we are seeing.
So let's go ahead and actually use this variable I'm going to copy it.
And this is obviously in your documentation.
In the links then we're going to go to Visual Studio and we're going to enable it before we do our server
travel.
So we're going to be use seamless travel equals true.
Just before we set off our own server travel let's go ahead and build that and see whether we get a
better result in our game once the build is finished I'm going to go ahead and open up the games you
can do the same sort of pause video because you don't want see me doing all that.
So I've gone ahead and launched up our game like I've always done I've created a host that you can see
here and I've joined in with one player now about to join in with the third player.
So let's go over to that player's game and we've got you can see the host my game.
That's my machine.
Click on that and I'll go join it.
Now hopefully what we'll see is a pretty seamless transition in.
There was no blocking there.
There were no issues at all that is seamless travel at its best for us.
So the next step is for you guys to get your hands dirty yourselves.
You're going to add a transition map you are going to read the documentation that I've given you on
it.
Add a custom transition map for yourself so creating a map setting up however you need to in the documentation
and display some loading text in that transition map.
Okay so pause a video and have a go at this.
Okay welcome back.
We're going to dive right into it so I'm going to close down my game here is three instances of the
game gone and we're going to look at how to set up the transition map.
It's in the documentation here.
Well actually it's a bit cryptically in the documentation here because it says it's configured through
the you map settings transition property and that by default it's empty.
Now you might infer that they use maps transition the you game map transition settings are actually
in our settings in the editor so if we go to settings project settings which is what you might expect
it's project related and then you search for the transition map then they go you will find that there
is a default empty property.
So we're going to have to first of all create a map.
Now I can close the settings down to do that and I'm going to go and add new in our puzzle platforms
maps section do a new level.
I'm going to call it transition or transition should do fine.
Going to open up that transition level save and we are going to add some text to this level.
So to do this we are going to create ourselves a UI component going to right click.
Currently in the maps section and I am going to go and look for the right section user interface section
go to the widget blueprint create a new widget blueprint prefix or with a view.
We just call it loading.
Because that's all it's going to be is going to be some loading text.
Let's go ahead and set that up so we're going to have a new widget that's going to add in some text
very very simple six and text in the middle there.
I'm going to set the text to be loading and I'm going to make it much much bigger.
Loading.
In fact let's have a loading game dot dot dot.
And I am going to.
Let's see.
I'm going to make sure that this is larger.
So go to the appearance make my font size something like 40 or even 50.
And then I'm going to make sure that it is centred and justification for the text is centred.
I'm then going to make sure that we actually anchor it Centre as well.
Like so.
And that's the position is all set up correctly like that.
In fact I noticed that.
That's not quite right.
We need to do something with our alignment here.
I think we're gonna have to do our alignment at that point five and point five and our size is not quite
right.
So again to make the size bigger.
Whoops that wasn't the size.
I get make the size of our box larger.
And reset the x and y positions.
Should be possible to reset them to zero I believe.
Guess and our loading is right in the centre of the screen we can compile we can save.
We can go to a transition map go to its blueprint menu and open the level blueprint where on begin play
we are going to try and load this widget.
So I'm going to.
Search for create widget.
Mike so and I'm going to select the class to be our loading class the opening play.
Let's see whether we actually need an opening play because I'm going to just go ahead and add it to
the viewport.
Add to viewport like so now we don't need to take any user input input so we shouldn't need to do any
more than that.
Let's go ahead and play this.
Yeah sure enough it is shown the text so I'm fairly happy that we don't need to add in an owning play
because it doesn't need to deal with any user input.
So now that we've got our transition map we can go back to our project settings and we can search for
that transition map or transition property or just transfer.
And I can select the transition map as our transition map let's go ahead and save that.
Make sure it was sort of set.
Now I'm going to open up my lobby and I'm going to do a little trick for testing this a bit quicker.
We're going to go to our play menu dropped down from the play menu select the number of players to be
three and launch it up like that.
Now we get three players join in and we should transition to the next map.
Funnily enough we are not.
I wonder what's going on here.
Let's go to our output logs see what's happening in the output log.
Hi.
Saying that seamless travel is not supported in a single process play out.
Okay fair enough.
We need to do it in our own game instances so let's launch up those game instances.
You know the routine by now one of them is going to be the host.
The other two are going to be clients so join from one.
Select the item hit join go and join in the other as well join wait for the menu to come up select our
server and then we are going to join and hopefully get a transition.
Okay the transition was very very quick.
Now if you're doing this over the network that transition or if your map is very large That would be
another thing.
We had a very large map then that transition map would be showing but because it just happened so quickly
you barely had time to notice it.
Maybe you did let me know in the discussions for this lecture whether you saw the transition map and
whether you can make the transition map stay for longer.
I'll see you in the next lecture where we're going to be making sure that no one else can join this
session after we've got we've actually started that session.